---
author: GentleTomZerg
tags: logic
title: Fallacies of Logic
---


# Fallacies of relevance
- The appeal to the populace (ad populum):

  When correct reasoning is replaced by devices calculated to elicit emotional
  and nonrational support for the conclusion urged.
- The appeal to emotion

  When correct reasoning is replaced by appeals to specific emotions, such as
  pity, pride, or envy.
- The red herring:

  When correct reasoning is manipulated by the introduction of some event or
  character that deliberately misleads the audience and thus hinders rational
  inference.
- The straw man:

  When correct reasoning is undermined by the deliberate misrepresentation of
  the opponent's position.
- The attack on the person (ad hominem):

  When correct reasoning about some issue is replaced by an attack upon the
  character or special circumstances of the opponent.
- The appeal to force (ad baculum):

  When reasoning is replaced by threats in the
  effort to win support or assent.
- Missing the point (ignoratio elenchi):

  When correct reasoning is replaced by the mistaken refutation of a position
  that was not really at issue.


# Fallacies of defective induction
- The argument from ignorances (ad ignorantiam):

  When it is argued that a proposition is true on the ground that it has not
  been proved false, or when it is argued that a proposition is false because it
  has not been proved true.
- The appeal to inappropriate authority (as verecundiam):

  When the premises of an argument appeal to the judgement of some person or
  persons who have no legitimate claim to authority in the matter at hand.
- False cause (non causa pro causa):

  When one treats as the cause of a thing that which is not really the cause of
  that thing, often relying(as in the subtype `post hoc ergo propter hoc`)
  merely on the **close temporal succession** of two events.
- Hasty generalization(converse accident):

  When one moves carelessly or too quickly from one or a vary few instances to a
  broad or universal claim.

# Fallacies of presumptions
- Accident:

  When one mistakenly applies a generalization to an individual case that it
  does not properly govern.
- Complex question:

  When one argues by asking a question in such a way as to presuppose the truth
  of some assumption buried in that question.
- Begging the question (petitio principii):

  When one assumes in the premises of an argument the truth of what one seeks to
  establish in the conclusion of that same argument.

# Fallacies of ambiguity
- Equivocation(歧义):

  When the same word or phrase is used with two or more meanings, deliberately
  or accidentally, in formulating an argument.
- Amphiboly(双关):

  When one of the statements in an argument has more than one plausible meaning,
  because of the loose or awkward way in which the words in that statement have
  been combined.
- Accent
- Compostion:

  - when one reasons mistakenly from the attributes of a part to the attributes
    of the whole
  - when one reasons mistakenly from the attributes of an individual memeber of
    some collection to the attributes of the totality of that collection.
- Division:

  - when one reasons mistakenly from the attributes of a whole to the attributes
    of one of its parts
  - when one reasons mistakenly from the attributes of a totality of some
    collection of entities to the attributes of an individual entities within
    that collection.
